---
layout: post
title: "SXSW'14 Day 3"
date: 2014-03-10 01:36:29 -0400
description: "Today was sort of slow for me since things started later at 11am (because of the time change). randome notes from the day Building next generation User Experien"
---
Today was sort of slow for me since things started later at 11am (because of the time change).

**randome notes from the day**

#Building next generation User Experiences at NASA
**The Moon**
Software that helps scientists plan out experiments for the orbiter, users where actually the software in a different way to find the location of the orbiter. Designed a interface about this new need. 

**Mars**
Built mission control and scheduling software. Also was the entry point to get data from the rover.  Turns out people that where never intended to use the software are actually using the software. Redesign to focus on this new type of user. Lost science discussion that occurs before the tools is used.  They built Pinterest for the rover. Snapshot of all of the tasks and recent activity that occurs on the rover in a title styled display.  Interface for all users that makes everyone able to access this complex data, however it gives the user option to open in the expert interface. 

**Deep Space**
NASA have a philosophy of using checklists to get things done.  They had a redesign of the deep space link that didn't work. 

After talking to the link operators they realized two things, they had troubles with window management and they lived in the command line. 

The prototype took lots of this information to consolidate and embraced the command line. Predictive commands

**Kepler and Distant a Worlds**
New ways to visualize data, if you do not tell your story someone else will do it for you. 

**Final Take Aways**

 - Software should be visual
 - Software needs to be inviting
 - Software should be inventive 
 - Software should tell a story 
 - You need to talk with your users to understand their particular needs.

#Reorienting UX Design for the internet of Things
Internet of things is a network of uniquely identifiable objects that are interconnected. 

 - Cheap, powerful cpu, data everywhere, open cloud API's are everywhere. 
 - People get interrupted at least 80 times a day. 
 - Designing for things today you do not always have the users full attention. 
 - Attention is rare today
 - Deliver single and ambient information
 - Data without interpretation is just quantified noise. 
 - Service design is all areas of an item. Includes all touch points in a task. 


#The Next Mobile Experience

 - We have out dated habits and expectations
 - No rectangles are located in nature's building blocks
 - Organize information organically
 - Organic structures + relevant information + control = efficient
 - Gestures have no standards, which can result in confusing experiences for each app. 
 - Gestures are like a language, consistent and easy to understand

#[Be Awesome Without Their Permission](http://schedule.sxsw.com/2014/events/event_IAP27473)
The last session was with Alexis Ohanian which he talked about his experiences with the start of reddit.  I did not take any notes on this talk but it was very inspirational for you to do great things.
